---
published: false
title: Reading
date: 2010-12-14T22:06:06-08:00
layout: post
tags:
  - ibooks
  - kindle
  - life
  - reading
  - unpublished
---
Ever since I was no longer forced to read by school, I pretty much stopped. Except for the nets and a magazine here and there, I don&#8217;t read any long-form things like several-hundred-page dead-tree things very often. I need a crazy amount of focus and a crazy lack of distraction to even get into the groove of trying to read.

<!--more-->

That being said, and then [this](http://birdiebloggery.wordpress.com/2010/12/14/kindle-a-candle/) being said, I have started to read a little more thanks to the iBooks app on my iPhone. I tried out the Kindle app a while ago, but then my drive died. Choosing to pick it back up again via iBooks was pretty arbitrary, but the app coming with a free copy of Winnie-the-Pooh didn&#8217;t hurt.

I&#8217;ve since read several short stories (gotta start small so I don&#8217;t lost interest) by both Philip K. Dick and Kurt Vonnegut. My only long-form novel so far has been Ayn Rand&#8217;s _Anthem_. I&#8217;m about to finish a sample of _Name of the Wind_, a novel lauded by several of my friends, and I definitely want to read more once it&#8217;s over.

My only gripe with iBooks? No OS X/Win app! Amazon&#8217;s got the Kindle, Kindle Win/Mac app, and an iPhone app, and they all sync. Apple has dropped the ball on this one. For shame!

Despite a promising initial attempt to turn reading into a full-time hobby, I&#8217;ve lost a bit of focus, as predicted. I suspect with the portability of having nearly limitless books in my phone, however, that I&#8217;ll keep picking it up here and there. Progress, man.
